Geeklog 1.4.0rc2 and stuff
Date: 2006-01-25 09:37:00
Label: Blog

Last night, xania.org achieved a whole year's uptime!  Hooray!

Rather embarrasingly I had had the year uptime anniversary in my diary, and
celebrated by updating the <a href="http://www.geeklog.net">GeekLog</a> blog
system I use on GodboltBlog to the latest release candidate --- <a
href="http://www.geeklog.net/article.php/geeklog-1.4.0rc2">GeekLog 1.4.0rc2</a>.

The new version sports several nice new features --- trackback and pingback with
spam filter support, an <a href="http://www.fckeditor.net/">advanced HTML
editor</a>, better syndication support and a more modular design with the
poll system and the links system now being plugins.

The installation went fairly well --- because I had previously patched my
geeklog with trackback and pingback support (prior to the spam support that is),
my database tables were already partially fixed up.  As a result, the first
upgrade hosed the database completely, and I had to restore from backup.  I
strongly recommend that you do backup (like the installer says!) before
attempting an upgrade!

Even with some hasty MySQL administration fiddling, I couldn't quite get the SQL
update script doing what I needed; so I resorted to manually editing the SQL
script to cater for my modified database schema.  It didn't take more than ten
minutes in total.

Getting my modified layout was also involved.  I've always manually updated the
CSS and thtml files used in GeekLog, but this time around I used <a
href="http://www.araxis.com/merge/index.html">Araxis Merge</a> to perform a
three-way merge from the original unadulterated geeklog 1.3 source, my modified
1.3 layout, and the 1.4 layout.  This proved very successful, I would recommend
trying it yourself.  Ideally I would have used <a
href="http://tortoisesvn.tigris.org/">TortoiseMerge</a>, but sadly that doesn't
(yet?) support 3-way directory diffs.

As a result of the upgrade, I've not yet reinstalled the stats or forum plugins.
I'm fairly tempted to not install either; the forums were woefully underused and
the stats package merely bloats the database backup with an enormous volume of
information that I no longer use.  I don't use it any more because xania.org
doesn't have the processing power necessary to churn through and generate the
relevant pages in real time.  Instead, I've been using <a
href="http://www.google.com/analytics/">Google Analytics</a> instead, which I
notice has just sent out <a
href="http://www.google.com/analytics/progress.html">some more beta
invitations</a>.
